{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red2\green2\blue2;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\lang9\f0\fs24 oolite-logo1.png \'ac\par
\fs72 Oolite\fs24\par
\pard\qc\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b\fs36 Version 1.75\par
\par
Installation\b0\fs24\par
Drag the 'Oolite' folder (containing Oolite, this ReadMe, the License and the 'AddOns' folder) to any convenient place on your hard drive.\par
If you are upgrading from a previous version of Oolite then drag the Oolite application from this disk's Oolite folder to your own Oolite folder.\par
\par
Note that Oolite will only work with Mac OS X 10.3 or higher, Mac OS 10.4 or above is recommended.\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\pard\qc\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b\fs36 Basic Instructions\par
\b0\fs24 Oolite is mostly controlled from the keyboard, although the mouse can also be used in full-screen mode:\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\b\fs28\tab\tab In Dock Commands:\par
\b0\fs24\par
\tab\tab\b 1 \b0 or\b  f1\b0\tab\tab\bullet  \b Launch.\b0  Propels your spacecraft from docked station.\b\par
\b0\par
\tab\tab\b 2 \b0 or\b  f2\b0\tab\tab\bullet  \b Quick-Save / Save / Load / Begin New Game\b0\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b up\b0  and \b down\b0  cursor keys to select, \b return\b0  to choose.\par
\par
\pard\fi-20\li2820\bullet  \b Game Options...\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi-20\li2820\sl-64\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Autosave\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  to enable/disable the autosave feature.\f1\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 When enabled, Autosave will create a saved game every time you \par
launch from a planetary station.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Sound Volume\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  or \b right\b0  to adjust the volume for effects and spoken messages.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Show Growl Messages\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  or \b right\b0  to toggle the priority of messages you want to be shown.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Spoken Messages\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  or \b right\b0  or \b return\b0  to toggle speech on/off.\f1\par
\f0 Spoken messages uses the default voice chosen in System Preferences.\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Music / iTunes Integration\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  to toggle this setting.\f1\par
\f0 See below for more details about iTunes integration.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Full Screen Mode\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  or \b right\b0  to select screen size and refresh rate.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-3\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\b\f0\bullet  Reduced Detail\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  to turn reduced detail on/off.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Removing some graphic complexity will somewhat increase the frame rate.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Wireframe Graphics\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  to select/deselect retro-look wireframe graphics mode.\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\bullet  \b Detailed Planets\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  to select/deselect procedurally generated planet rendering.\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\f0\bullet  \b Shader Effects\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Use \b left\b0  or \b right\b0  to adjust the desired level between None, Simple and Full.\f1\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 (Not available if your graphics hardware has no shaders support.)\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\bullet  \b Joystick Configuration\b0\f1\par
\pard\fi580\li2820\sl-2\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1120\li2820\f0 Press Enter to go to the joystick calibration and configuration screen.\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\b\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\bullet  Reset to Strict Play / Reset to Unrestricted Play\par
\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Press return to reset the game.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Strict play disables expansion packs and sets the gameplay to 'classic' mode.\par
\par
\tab\tab\b 3 \b0 or\b  f3\b0\tab\tab\b Ship Outfitting display\b0  / \b Ship Purchase display\b0  (toggles between the two)\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b up\b0  and \b down\b0  cursor keys to select, \b return\b0  to purchase.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b left\b0  and \b right\b0  cursor keys to move between pages.\par
\par
\tab\tab\b 5 \b0 or\b  f5\b0\tab\tab\b Status display\b0  / \b Ship's Manifest display\b0  (toggles between the two)\par
\tab\tab\b 6 \b0 or\b  f6\b0\tab\tab\b Short range\b0  / \b Long range star chart display\b0  (toggles between the two)\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b cursor keys\b0  or the \b mouse button\b0  to select a hyperdrive target system.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b home\b0  key to select the current system.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab On long range chart only, you may type a star name to locate it.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Also on the long range chart:\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\b\fs25 '^' \b0 plots the route from your current system to your target system\par
\pard\fi3720\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802 (requires advanced navigational array)\fs24\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\b '?' \b0 takes you directly to the Passengers and Contracts display.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab On the short range chart:\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab '\b i\b0 ' shows information for each system (economy, government and tech level).\par
\par
\tab\tab\b 7 \b0 or\b  f7\b0\tab\tab\b Planetary database display\b0\par
\tab\tab\b 8 \b0 or\b  f8\b0\tab\tab\b Commodity Market\b0  / \b Carrier Market\b0\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab (toggles between the two)\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab On the Commodity Market:\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b up\b0  and \b down\b0  cursor keys to select,\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\b right\b0  to purchase commodity, \b left\b0  to sell commodity.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\b Return\b0  buys or sells as much of the selected commodity as possible.\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab On the Carrier Market:\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Use \b up\b0  and \b down\b0  cursor keys to select, \b Return\b0  to agree the contract,\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab pressing '\b ?\b0 ' takes you to the long range chart with the destination system selected. \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Taking passenger contracts requires a passenger berth.\fs36\par
\fs24\par
\b\fs28\tab\tab Flight Key Commands:\par
\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b Attitude Controls:\par
\ul Cursor Keys\ulnone\b0\par
\b Left & Right\b0\tab Roll\par
\b Up & Down\b0\tab Pitch\par
\b , & .\b0\tab Yaw\par
\par
\b Drive controls:\par
w\b0\tab Increase Speed\par
\b s\b0\tab Decrease Speed\par
\par
\b Hyperspeed:\par
j\b0\tab Toggle the in-system hyperspeed drive ("Torus Jump Drive") on and off.\par
\tab The drive is disabled by nearby mass / gravity effects.\par
\par
\b Hyperdrive:\par
h\b0\tab Activate the hyperdrive, also known as the witchspace jump drive.\par
\tab This drive must have a target destination selected in the chart display.\par
\b g\b0\tab Activate the inter-galactic hyperdrive (if installed).\par
\par
\b Fuel Injection:\par
i\b0\tab Activate the afterburner fuel injectors (if installed).\par
\par
\par
\b Other controls:\par
p\b0\tab Pause / un-pause the game (only during flight).\par
\cf1\tab\cf0 While paused you can access some elements of the Options menu by pressing \b 2\b0  or \b f2\b0 .\par
\par
\b Weaponry:\par
a\b0\tab Fire main weapon for the facing chosen.\par
\b _ (Underscore)\b0 Toggle weapons lockdown on/off.\par
\par
\par
\b Missiles, mines and pylon mounted equipment:\par
r\b0\tab Activate target identification system (deactivating the missile/mine system).\par
\b t\b0\tab Enable targeting for the current missile, or arm the current mine.\par
\tab If the target identification system is active and locked on,\par
\tab then this also locks a missile onto the selected target.\par
\b y\b0\tab Switch to the next missile or mine available (requires Multi-Targeting System.)\par
\b u\b0\tab If target identification is active, deactivate it and reactivate the missile/mine system.\par
\tab If missiles are active, clear any targets (places them in safety mode)\par
\b m\b0\tab Launch the current missile or mine (it must be locked on target, or armed first),\par
\tab and switch to the next missile available.\par
\pard\fi40\li1100\tx2820\b\f2 T (shift-t)\tab\b0\f0 Immediately target the nearest incoming missile.\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\b Selectable Equipment:\par
N (shift-n)\tab\b0 Next selectable equipment.\b\par
n\tab\b0 Activate selectable equipment.\par
\b -\tab\b0 Lock on to previous target in memory (if installed).\par
\par
\b Target Memory Expansion:\par
+\tab\b0 Lock on to next target in memory (if installed).\b\par
-\tab\b0 Lock on to previous target in memory (if installed).\b\par
\b0\par
\b Anti-Missile ECM:\par
e\b0\tab Activate anti-missile ECM (if installed).\par
\par
\b Scanner:\par
z\b0\tab Adjust scanner zoom ratio (only during flight).\par
\tab This allows you to 'zoom in' to navigate around small, close-to objects.\par
\tab A small indicator next to the compass indicates the current scanner ratio\par
\tab (from 1:1 to 5:1).\par
\b Z (shift-z)\b0\tab Reset zoom ratio to 1:1.\par
\b\par
Advanced Space Compass:\par
\\\b0\tab Change compass mode (if the advanced space compass is installed).\par
\tab Toggles the space compass between Planet, Main Station, Sun, Witchpoint,\par
\tab Target, and additional Beacons.\par
\par
\b Communications:\b0\par
\b `\b0\tab View communications log.\par
\tab Allows you to see recent ship-ship communications.\par
\b L (shift-l)\b0\tab Request / Cancel / Renew docking clearance.\par
\par
\b View screens:\par
1 \b0 or\b  f1\b0\tab View forward\par
\b 2 \b0 or\b  f2\b0\tab View aft\par
\b 3 \b0 or\b  f3\b0\tab View port\par
\b 4 \b0 or\b  f4\b0\tab View starboard\par
\b v\b0\tab Toggle between external views.\par
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\f3\fs20\tab\tab\tab\f0\fs24\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\b 5 \b0 or\b  f5\b0\tab Status display / Ship's Manifest display\par
\b 6 \b0 or\b  f6\b0\tab Long range / Short range star chart display (toggles between the two)\par
\par
\b 7 \b0 or\b  f7\b0\tab Planetary database display\par
\b 8 \b0 or\b  f8\b0\tab Commodity Market display\par
\par
\b Automated Docking:\par
c\b0\tab Begin/Abandon automated docking sequence with main station, or current target.\par
\tab If only one station is in range, no targeting necessary (requires docking computer).\par
\b s\b0\tab Toggle docking music on/off (requires docking computer).\par
\b C (shift-c)\b0\tab Fast docking (without docking sequence), advances the game clock by 20 minutes.\par
\tab (requires docking computer).\par
\par
\b Ejecting cargo items:\par
d\b0\tab Eject cargo pod.\par
\b R (shift-r)\b0\tab Rotate cargo to determine what will be ejected.\par
\par
\b Escape Capsule:\par
esc\b0\tab Launch escape capsule (if installed).\par
\par
\b Specialist Equipment:\par
0 (zero)\b0\tab Activate specialist equipment (if installed).\par
\par
\b Energy Bomb:\par
tab\b0\tab Activate energy bomb (if installed).\par
\par
\b\fs28 Other Commands:\par
\b0\fs24\par
\sub\b\f4\fs44 *\nosupersub\fs24  (asterisk)\b0\f0\tab Take screenshot (writes a '.png' screenshot\~to the same folder as Oolite.app)\par
\b\f4\u8984?\f0 Q\b0\tab Quit\par
\b\f4\u8984?\f0 F\b0\tab Switch between full-screen and windowed mode.\par
\b F (shift-F)\b0\tab Toggle FPS and Objs debugging display on and off.\par
\b M (shift-M)\b0\tab (In full-screen only) Toggle mouse control on and off:\par
\tab\b Mouse left-right\b0  controls roll.\par
\tab\b Mouse forward-back\b0  controls pitch.\par
\tab\b Left mouse button\b0  fires weapons.\par
\tab\b Right mouse button\b0  cancels roll and pitch, centering the controls.\par
\b\f4\u8984?\f0 ?\b0\tab Help menu (in windowed mode).\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3260\tx2832\tqr\tx11900\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b\fs28\tab\tab iTunes Integration:\par
\par
\pard\li1140\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b0\fs24 iTunes integration allows you to choose the music to be played in the background as you are running Oolite.\par
With music set to\b  iTunes\b0 , Oolite looks for music inside iTunes playlists with the following names:\par
\par
\tab\b Oolite-Inflight\b0\tab\tab should contain music tracks to be played during flight,\par
\tab\b Oolite-Docked\b0\tab\tab should contain music tracks to be played while in dock,\par
and\tab\b Oolite-Docking\b0\tab\tab should contain music tracks to be played during the docking sequence.\par
\par
You should set up these playlists yourself, choosing whatever music you like to listen to while playing Oolite.\par
\par
iTunes integration relies on Applescript and the ability to run iTunes and Oolite simultaneously and therefore may not be a good choice on a slower machine. If your Mac is fast enough to allow you to do this normally then there should be no problem.\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b\fs28 Helpful Information:\par
\b0\fs24\par
For more information on playing Oolite visit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://oolite.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://oolite.org}}}\f0\fs24\par
\pard\fi1140 Read the tutorial before you begin ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://oolite.aegidian.org/tutorial"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://oolite.aegidian.org/tutorial}}}\f0\fs24 )!\par
\par
\pard\fi1140\sl-154\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1140 Oolite Development Project Page:  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://developer.berlios.de/projects/oolite-linux"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://developer.berlios.de/projects/oolite-linux}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\par
\par
The Oolite Wiki: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/Oolite_Main_Page"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/Oolite_Main_Page}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\pard\fi1140\sl-154\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1140 Frequently Asked Questions: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/Oolite_FAQ"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/Oolite_FAQ}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\pard\fi1140\sl-154\slmult0\par
\pard\fi1140 Most Oolite eXpansion Packs (OXPs) are available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/OXP"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://wiki.alioth.net/index.php/OXP}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
For answers to questions about playing Oolite, customising Oolite and anything else Oolite related, post to the Oolite Bulletin Boards at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://aegidian.org/bb"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://aegidian.org/bb}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\par
\pard\fi-560\li3960\ri-4910\tx3401\tx3955\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\pard\qc\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b\fs28\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b0\fs24 I am immensely grateful to all the people who have been testing Oolite and slowly bringing it towards perfection.\par
\par
Thanks to all of you!\par
\par
\pard\fi-451\li1600\ri-3840\sl500\slmult0\qc\cf3\b Note: my email address for feedback is AHRUMAN@OOLITE.ORG\cf0\b0\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\qc\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b You can also report bugs and give feedback at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://aegidian.org/bb"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://aegidian.org/bb}}}\b0\f0\fs24 .\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\pard\li1140\ri-2440\cf4 If this application crashes, please send an email to oolite.bug.reports@gmail.com, and attach the crash log (found at ~/Library/Logs/CrashReporter/Oolite.crash.log).\cf1\par
\cf0\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\qc\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b\fs36 License\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\b0\fs24 Copyright \'a9 2004-2009 Giles C Williams and contributors.\par
\par
This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 2.\par
\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tqr\tx12480 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.\par
\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\par
Additionally, all artwork \endash  3D models, images and sounds \endash  included in the work, as well as configuration files, are also licensed under the Creative\~Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike License version 3.0. This means that these files may be distributed under either license at your discretion.\par
To view a copy of Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license, visit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/}}}\f0\fs24  or send a letter to Creative Commons, 559 Nathan Abbott Way, Stanford, California 94305, USA.\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tqr\tx12480\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tx1980\tx2260\tqr\tx12480 You are free:\par
\tab\bullet\tab to Share \emdash  to copy, distribute and transmit the work\par
\tab\bullet\tab to Remix \emdash  to adapt the work\par
    \par
Under the following conditions:\par
\pard\fi-580\li2280\ri-3840\tx1980\tx2260\tqr\tx12480\tab\bullet\tab Attribution. You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work).\par
\tab\bullet\tab Noncommercial. You may not use this work for commercial purposes.\par
\tab\bullet\tab Share Alike. If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under the same or similar license to this one.\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tx1980\tx2260\tqr\tx12480\par
For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work. Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from the copyright holder. Apart from the remix rights granted under this license, nothing in this license impairs or restricts the author\rquote s moral rights.\par
Your fair dealing and other rights are in no way affected by the above.\par
This is a human-readable summary of the Legal Code (the full license).\par
\pard\li1140\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
\par
The source code distribution and the Mac OS X version of Oolite contain\par
parts subject to the following license:\par
\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480 VirtualRingBuffer\par
Copyright \'a9 2002, Kurt Revis. All rights reserved.\par
   \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
   \par
\pard\fi-580\li2280\ri-3840\tx1980\tx2260\tqr\tx12480\tab\bullet\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\tab\bullet\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\tab\bullet\tab Neither the name of Snoize nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\pard\li1700\ri-3840\tx2832\tqr\tx12480\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS \ldblquote AS IS\rdblquote  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
}
 